
Which is more important ? Basic research or applied ? 

Here, basic research means research that is done without considering the monetary and social benefits of the results that the research can lead to. I would like to think this kind of research is mostly inspired by the curiosity of the researcher and generally starts with the question Why. Applied research, on the other hand, as the name indicates, focuses on the research/engineering with clearly demonstrable immediate (a decade?) application with some foreseeable financial return.  However, there exists some kind of research that can have both basic and application character. High temperature superconductivity, for example. 

I grow up and used to believe that basic research is important to the degree that it was almost sacred to me, and Faraday, Einstein were over-earthly saints. Engineering and applied research, on other hand, I used to belittle, even despise, and used to believe these fields were inferior to basic research.  I think those ill-informed believes of mine is most probably due to the science textbooks who portray scientists as if they are superhuman and couldn't remember any engineers (Edison?) that the textbooks ever mentioned.  I remember writing proposals to obtain beam time at the Australian Synchrotron in Melbourne while I was doing my PhD. There were some choices you have to choose when submitting the proposal to indicate what is the significance of the research an in what areas like biomedical, energy, environment. We have to demonstrate that our research has some application potential in one of these fields. I hated the proposal submission step. 

Probably because fueled by these believes, my research direction was on the basic side: For my masters degree, I studied infrared spectroscopy of cold molecules and their reactions trapped in a malleable solid hydrogen at minus 271 Celsius degrees. For my PhD, I studied formation of nano and micro clusters of simple molecules like water and formic acid at a bit warmer temperatures of minus 196 Celsius degrees via monitoring using infrared spectroscopy.  

Starting from mid 2019, I started working at the Nanotechnology Research center in Erciyes University, Kayseri. Here, my research is focused onto two different areas: surface enhanced Raman scattering and superhydrophobic surfaces. The first I had some experiences but the second ones was completely new to me to the degree that I never heard of superhydrophobicity ! These research completely changed my mindset, and I started to realize the importance of applied research. You see, these research focuses on preparing metals clusters on a surface so that small amounts of a target molecule, be it pesticide in water or protein in a bacterial contaminated surface, can be easily measured and identified. The second part is about preparing coatings that once applied onto a surface, the surface becomes extremely to water and to some degree to dust and dirt. The application is clear and immediate, you can apply them onto your windows, solar panels, etc. 

I am novice to the research area and the novelty (to me) different culture of research enough to sustain my interest for a while. These research is mostly focused on a certain desired property, and done in a fashion of trials and error, and the end results being the most important parameter, while asking why was only minimally raised. I could understand the practicality. However, once I started diving further into the field, I realized there is more to it than on it appears on the surface. We further dug deep into the filed, realizing why and how certain combination of experimental parameters affect the durability of the resultant surface coating layer. Then, realized here, the applied field and basic research that I arbitrary draw a boundary does not really exist, and the research I am currently doing crosses the boundaries. 

A talk given by Peter Hamming of IBM about You and your research: He talks about the importance of research, research that you can have a crack at and contribute, and others can build upon. The research done at IBM is kind of research with no clear boundaries of basic and applied research. As Prof. George Whitesides wrote, we have an obligation of taxpayers who payed for the research, to give back some form of return for their money. 

Furthermore, I attended a conference in Istanbul two weeks ago. There were two invited presentations that most memorable to me: One by Prof. Metin Sitti of MPI, about microrobots for biomedical applications and the other by Prof. for Tokyo University about catalytic water splitting. Both talk aimed at applied/engineering direction but the details involved lost so of basic research questions. 

So the take home message for myself, is that we are prone to ill-informed opinions and biases. Exposure your-self to multiple fields, learn something about certain fields you have some opinion but little experience with, as Prof. David Wrinkler suggested. Learning is important to grow and formulate and adjust our opinion, and formulate a evidence-based world view in general. 



